README: Add user documentation and badges (#25)
jakobj/python-gp: README.md

python-gp
===========
[![Python3.6](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.6-red.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-369/)
[![Python3.7](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.7-red.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
[![Python3.8](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8-red.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
[![GPL license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-3.0.html)

Cartesian Genetic Programming (CGP) in Python.

> This library implements Cartesian Genetic Programming in pure Python. It provides Python data structures to represent and evolve a two-dimensional directed graph (the genotype) that can be translated into a computational graph (the phenotype) implementing a particular mathematical expression. The current implementation uses an evolutionary algorithm,  (mu + lambda) evolution strategies, to evolve a population of Cartesian graphs in order to optimize an objective function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This library implements Cartesian Genetic Programming for symbolic regression in pure Python. It provides Python data structures to represent and evolve a two-dimensional directed graph (the genotype) that can be translated into a computational graph (the phenotype) implementing a particular mathematical expression. The current implementation uses an evolutionary algorithm,  specifically (mu + lambda) evolution strategies, to evolve a population of symbolic expressions in order to optimize an objective function.

```

Reviewer: in the manuscript we refer to the flattened 1d array of integers as the genotype, here we refer to the 2d directed graph as the genotype. i think we should settle on one; i'd prefer the latter and adapt the manuscript accordingly. the flattened array of ints is an implementation detail imho

Author: Done.

<img src="cgp-sketch.png" alt="CGP Sketch" width="600"/>

Basic usage
===========

A simple example of CGP applied to a symbolic regression problem can be found in `examples/example_evo_regression.py`.

The basic steps are:

1. Define an objective function. 

   The objective function needs to take an individual as input variable and update the `fitness` of the individual.
```python
def objective(individual):
      """Objective function of the regression task.

       Parameters
      ----------
      individual : gp.CGPIndividual
          Individual of the Cartesian Genetic Programming Framework.

      Returns
      -------
      gp.CGPIndividual
          Modified individual with updated fitness value.
      """
      # Compute the fitness value
      fitness = ...
	  individual.fitness = fitness

> 	  return individual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	  individual.fitness = ...
	  return individual
```

Reviewer: i'm not sure whether you rejected this or it just disappeared?

Author: Your original suggestion looked different, that's why I rejected. This is fine.

```
2. Define parameters for the genome, the population and the evolutionary algorithm
```python
params = {
     'seed': 8188212,

>      'n_threads': 1,

Reviewer: change to `n_processes` and add to `ea_params`

Author: Done. cef7b7a23477554b7cd4dfbba200927ed5fb897a

python-gp
===========
[![Python3.6](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.6-red.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-369/)
[![Python3.7](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.7-red.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
[![Python3.8](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8-red.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
[![GPL license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-3.0.html)

Cartesian genetic programming (CGP) in Python.

This library implements Cartesian genetic programming in pure Python. It implements Python data structures to represent computational graphs in the Cartesian Genetic programming and provides one evolutionary algorithm,  (mu + lambda) evolution strategies, to evolve a population of computational graphs given an objective function.

> ![CGP Sketch](cgp-sketch.png)

Author: I increased the resolution and resized the image: 14357ae496a338d747d77abdc0709d467286117c

Basic usage
===========

A complete example of CGP applied to a regression problem can be found in `examples/example_evo_regression.py`.

The basic steps to be taken are:

1. **Define an objective function**. 

   The objective needs to take an individual as input variable and update the `fitness` member of the individual.

> ```

Reviewer: is it possible to render this as python code?

Author: It is! Awesome! 5e5d4ff94796ad7a98e2baf5b5a8b0d5cc3508e7

def objective(individual):
    """Objective function of the regression task.

    Parameters
    ----------
    individual : gp.CGPIndividual
        Individual of the Cartesian Genetic Programming Framework.

    Returns
    -------
    gp.CGPIndividual
        Modified individual with updated fitness value.
    """
	# Compute the fitness value
	fitness = ...
	individual.fitness = fitness
	return individual
```

> 2. Define parameters for the genome, the population and the evolutionary algorithm

Reviewer: either all headings should be bold or none

Author: I unbolded the first heading.

```
params = {
   'seed': 8188212,
   'n_threads': 1,
   'max_generations': 1000,
   'min_fitness': 0.,

   'population_params': {
        'n_parents': 10,
        'mutation_rate': 0.5,
    },

   'ea_params': {
       'n_offsprings': 10,
       'n_breeding': 10,
       'tournament_size': 1},

   'genome_params': {
       'n_inputs': 2,
       'n_outputs': 1,
       'n_columns': 10,
       'n_rows': 5,
       'levels_back': 2,
       'primitives': [gp.CGPAdd, gp.CGPSub, gp.CGPMul, gp.CGPDiv, gp.CGPConstantFloat]},
    }
```
3. Initialize the `CGPPopulation` and the evolutionary algorithm instance:
```
pop = gp.CGPPopulation(**params['population_params'],
                          seed=params['seed'], genome_params=params['genome_params'])
ea = gp.ea.MuPlusLambda(**params['ea_params'])
```
4. Define a callback function to record information about the evolution of the population:
```
def record_history(pop, history):
    keys = ['fitness']
    for key in keys:
        if key not in history:
            history[key] = []
    history['fitness'].append(pop.fitness_parents())
```

> 5. Use the `evolve` function that ties everything together and executes the evolution:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Use the `evolve` function from the high-level API that ties everything together and executes the evolution:
```

```
history = gp.evolve(pop, obj, ea, params['max_generations'],
                       params['min_fitness'], record_history=record_history, print_progress=True)
```

> 

Reviewer: do we need so many line breaks? ;)

> Data structures

Reviewer: do we need such a detailed discussion of the relevant classes here?

Author: Why not? I think it is useful for someone who likes to understand this library.

Reviewer: my main concern is maintenance: as the library develops this might become outdated and we need to keep track of it manually. for such "low level" documentation maybe something automated like sphinx is the better option?

===============

> The Cartesian genetic programming framework is implemented with the following data structures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cartesian Genetic Programming framework is implemented with the following data structures:
```

> - `CGPPopulation` implements a population of `CGPIndividual` parent individuals and defines the standard procedures to create offspring from parent individuals, mutation and crossover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `CGPPopulation` represents a population of `CGPIndividual` individuals and defines the standard procedures to create offspring from these as well as mutation and crossover.
```

- `CGPIndividual` represents an individual that is defined by its genome (`CGPGenome`).
- `CGPGenome` represents the genome of an individual. It is defined by its DNA (a list of integers) and parametrized by the parameters of CGP: `n_inputs`, `n_outputs`, `n_rows`, `levels_back`, and the primitives.
- `CGPGraph` implements the computational graph represented by a `CGPGenome` and provides a `parse_genome` method to parse the genome into a phenotype, the core algorithm defining the CGP framework. It provides three methods to parse the computational graph into representations that can be used in downstream tasks:
    - `to_sympy` parses the computational graph into a sympy-expression.
	- `to_torch` creates a torch.nn.Module child class.
	- `to_func` creates a Python callable.
- Primitives are operations that are combined in a computational graphs to produce an output value from given input values. Any operation is supported, the library currently implements:
   - Addition: `CGPAdd`
   - Subtraction: `CGPSub`
   - Multiplication: `CGPMul`
   - Division: `CGPDiv`
   - Exponentiation: `CGPPow`
   - Constants: `CGPConstantFloat`

>    These operations are implemented as child classes of `CGPNode` and are grouped by the umbrella class `CGPPrimitives` inside the `CGPGenome`.

Reviewer: do we need to mention `CGPPrimitives`?

Author: I would like to mention it because e.g. even for me, it wasn't immediately clear what this class is used for (see #16 )

Reviewer: i think as a user you shouldn't even see this class, right?

[![Python3.7](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.7-red.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
[![Python3.8](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8-red.svg)](https://www.python.org/)
[![GPL license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-3.0.html)

Cartesian Genetic Programming (CGP) in Python.

This library implements Cartesian Genetic Programming for symbolic regression in pure Python. It provides Python data structures to represent and evolve a two-dimensional directed graph (the genotype) that can be translated into a computational graph (the phenotype) implementing a particular mathematical expression. The current implementation uses an evolutionary algorithm,  specifically (mu + lambda) evolution strategies, to evolve a population of symbolic expressions in order to optimize an objective function.

<img src="cgp-sketch.png" alt="CGP Sketch" width="600"/>

Basic usage
===========

A simple example of CGP applied to a symbolic regression problem can be found in `examples/example_evo_regression.py`.

The basic steps are:

1. Define an objective function. 

>    The objective function needs to take an individual as input variable and update the `fitness` of the individual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The objective function takes an individual as an argument and updates the `fitness` of the individual.
```

```python
def objective(individual):
      """Objective function of the regression task.

       Parameters
      ----------
      individual : gp.CGPIndividual
          Individual of the Cartesian Genetic Programming Framework.

      Returns
      -------
      gp.CGPIndividual
          Modified individual with updated fitness value.
      """
      # Compute the fitness value
	  individual.fitness = ...

> 	  return individual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	individual.fitness = ...
	return individual
```

```
2. Define parameters for the genome, the population and the evolutionary algorithm
```python
params = {
     'seed': 8188212,
     'max_generations': 1000,
     'min_fitness': 0.,

     'population_params': {
          'n_parents': 10,
          'mutation_rate': 0.5,
      },

     'ea_params': {
         'n_offsprings': 10,
         'n_breeding': 10,
         'tournament_size': 1,

> 		 'n_processes': 2},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         'tournament_size': 1,
         'n_processes': 2},
```

     'genome_params': {
         'n_inputs': 2,
         'n_outputs': 1,
         'n_columns': 10,
         'n_rows': 5,
         'levels_back': 2,
         'primitives': [gp.CGPAdd, gp.CGPSub, gp.CGPMul, gp.CGPDiv, gp.CGPConstantFloat]},
      }
```
3. Initialize the population and an evolutionary algorithm instance:
```python
pop = gp.CGPPopulation(**params['population_params'],
                          seed=params['seed'], genome_params=params['genome_params'])
ea = gp.ea.MuPlusLambda(**params['ea_params'])
```
4. Define a callback function to record information about the evolution of the population:
```python
def record_history(pop, history):
        keys = ['fitness']
        for key in keys:
            if key not in history:
                history[key] = []

>         history['fitness'].append(pop.fitness_parents())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
history = {}
history["fitness_parents"] = []
def recording_callback(pop):
    history["fitness_parents"].append(pop.fitness_parents())
```

Reviewer: this reflects the new history recording method

```
5. Use the `evolve` function from the high-level API that ties everything together and executes the evolution:
```python
history = gp.evolve(pop, obj, ea, params['max_generations'],

>                        params['min_fitness'], record_history=record_history, print_progress=True)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                       params['min_fitness'], print_progress=True, callback=recording_callback)
```
